.
AND I APPRECIATE YOUR TIME.
SO LET ME START WITH YOU,
MATTHEW, AND YOUR REPORTING.
U.S. OFFICIALS ARE SAYING IN
TERMS OF WHAT STARTED THIS
ATTACK AND POSSIBLY WHAT COULD
DETERMINE HOW MUCH BIGGER THIS
CONFLICT GETS.
U.S. OFFICIALS ARE SAYING THAT
THERE IS NO PROOF OR SUGGESTION
OF DIRECT IRANIAN INVOLVEMENT.
WHAT ARE YOU LEARNING?
>> WELL, I MEAN, IN GENERAL
TERMS, ISRAELI OFFICIALS I'VE
SPOKEN TO AGREE WITH THAT
ASSESSMENT IN THE SENSE THAT
THEY'RE SAYING, LOOK, THE
BACKDROP OF THIS IS THAT IRAN
PROVIDES MATERIAL SUPPORT,
TRAINING, POLITICAL SUPPORT FOR
HAMAS.
THERE IS A DIFFERENCE.
THERE'S A GAP BETWEEN WHAT WE
JUST SAID THEN AND WHAT ISRAELI
INTELLIGENCE IS SUGGESTING.
THEY ARE SAYING TO ME, THE
SENIOR ISRAELI OFFICIAL TELLING
ME EARLIER THAT IRAN GREEN
LIGHTED THE IDEA OF THIS
OPERATION, DIDN'T KNOW ABOUT THE
TIMING PERHAPS, DIDN'T QUITE
UNDERSTAND PERHAPS AS MANY OF US
DIDN'T, THE CONSEQUENCES OF WHAT
THIS OPERATION WOULD BE BUT KNEW
THIS OPERATION WAS BEING
PLANNED.
AND THAT'S VERY DIFFERENT TO
HAVING NO INVOLVEMENT
WHATSOEVER.
IT'S NOT THAT IRAN WAS PULLING
THE STRINGS, BUT IT'S SOMEWHERE
IN THE MIDDLE.
>> SO, A SENIOR HAMAS OFFICIAL
IS NOW CLAIMING THAT THEY SPENT
TWO YEARS -- THAT'S AMAZING TO
THINK ABOUT THAT AS MATTHEW AND
I ARE STANDING HERE -- TWO YEARS
PREPARING FOR THIS UNPRECEDENTED
ISRAEL AND THAT IT DID FINANCIAL
AS WELL AS WEAPONS SUPPORT FROM
IRAN.
ALSO SAYING THAT RUSSIA REACHED
OUT AFTER THE ATTACK.
GENERAL HODGES, WHEN YOU PUT ALL
THIS TOGETHER, HOW SIGNIFICANT
IS THIS?
THE INVOLVEMENT THEY ARE SAYING
THEY HAD FROM BOTH RUSSIA AND
IRAN.
BUT ALSO THE LENGTH OF TIME THAT
THEY ARE SAYING THEY PLANNED
THIS THAT ISRAEL DID NOT SEE IT
COMING.
>> SO, ERIN, I THINK THIS IS
RUSSIA OPENING UP A SECOND
FRONT.
I MEAN, WHAT'S GOING ON NOW IS
DISTRACTING SO MUCH ATTENTION
AND EVEN RESOURCES AWAY FROM
UKRAINE, WHICH, OF COURSE,
BENEFITS RUSSIA.
NOBODY EVEN HAS MENTIONED
UKRAINE HARDLY IN THE LAST 96
HOURS.
I THINK IT'S PROBABLY ACCURATE
WHEN THE ADMINISTRATION SAYS
THERE WAS NO DIRECT INVOLVEMENT,
BUT THE WAY YOU AND MATT HAVE
LAID IT OUT, IT'S GREEN LIGHTING
THE WEAPONS, I MEAN, I WATCHED
THE TRAINING VIDEO OF THESE GUYS
WHAT, THEY WERE DOING TO PREPARE
FOR THIS ATTACK.
THIS IS NOT SOMETHING YOU DO IN
YOUR GARAGE OR YOUR BASEMENT.
THIS IS REALLY HIGH-QUALITY
EFFORT ON THE SIDE OF HAMAS.
>> AND, MATTHEW, WE'RE
TALKING -- I WAS TALKING TO
SOMEONE TODAY.
THERE ARE THESE STORIES ABOUT
IDF FIGHTERS TAKING ON EIGHT TO
TEN OF THESE FIGHTERS AND
FIGHTING FOR HOURS AND HOURS IN
HAND-TO-HAND COMBAT, THAT THIS
WAS ALSO GOING ON FOR QUITE SOME
TIME, THAT THESE WERE NOT JUST
HIGHLY MOTIVATED BUT HIGHLY
PREPARED AND HIGHLY ARMED
INDIVIDUALS.
>> YEAH.
THIS HAS BEEN AN INCREDIBLE
SHOCK, ERIN, OF COURSE, TO THE
PEOPLE OF ISRAEL, THEY'RE
ENRAGED BY IT.
AND, OF COURSE, IT'S BEEN
SURPRISING AS WELL.
AND I THINK IT'S PROBABLY
SURPRISING FOR HAMAS AS WELL.
FROM WHAT I'VE BEEN HEARING,
THEY THOUGHT THEY WERE GOING TO
BE SO SUCCESSFUL, IF I CAN USE
THOSE TERMS.
PERHAPS THEY WANTED TO GET SOME
ISRAELI HOSTAGES, PERHAPS THEY
WANTED TO USE THAT TO NEGOTIATE
BETTER TERMS IN GAZA.
BUT WHERE THEY'VE GONE TO HAS
LED TO THE BRINK OF UTTER
CATASTROPHE FOR THEM AND FOR
GAZA.
>> AND, GENERAL HODGES, WHEN YOU
THINK ABOUT WHAT WE ACTUALLY SAW
ON THE BORDER TODAY RIGHT ALONG
THAT BORDER THREE MILES AWAY,
VERY BLATANT MASSING OF ISRAELI
FORCES.
THEY ARE BUSING THEM IN.
WE HEARD HEAVY OUTGOING FIRE.
WE HEARD THE FIGHTER JETS AND
THE EXPLOSIONS AND WE SAW THEM
IN GAZA.
AND THEN AT ONE POINT 60 ROCKETS
CAME IN.
IT WAS A BARRAGE, IT WAS AN
ONSLAUGHT.
THAT'S THE TEMPO THAT WE
EXPERIENCED THROUGHOUT THE
AFTERNOON TODAY.
GENERAL HODGES, WHAT DOES THIS
SAY TO YOU ABOUT WHAT IS NEXT?
DO YOU SUSTAIN THIS SORT OF BACK
AND FORTH IF SOMETHING ISN'T
ABOUT TO IMMINENTLY OCCUR?
>> WELL, YOU KNOW, I'M PUTTING
MYSELF IN THE SHOES OF THE
COMMANDER OF, SAY, A BATTALION
COMMANDER.
AND I WANT TO KNOW WHAT IS MY
MISSION.
SOLDIERS CANNOT STAY IN A CROUCH
OR COILED LIKE THIS
INDEFINITELY.
SO, WHAT YOU HAVE SHOWN VERY
CLEARLY IS THAT THEY ARE IN THIS
CROUCH GETTING READY FOR
SOMETHING.
BUT ARE THEY GOING IN THERE TO
DO A PUNITIVE STRIKE, GO IN FOR
A FEW DAYS, KILL AS MANY HAMAS
AS THEY CAN?
OR IS THIS GOING TO END UP IN AN
OCCUPATION THAT MAYBE LASTS FOR
SEVERAL MONTHS?
THAT'S A DIFFERENT SORT OF
THING.
THAT'S WHAT I WOULD WANT TO KNOW
IF I WAS THE COMMANDER.
WHAT'S THE END STATE WE'RE BEING
SENT IN TO ACHIEVE.
NO MATTER WHICH, EITHER OF THESE
TWO POSSIBILITIES, IT'S GOING TO
BE VERY, VERY DIFFICULT.
YOU'VE POINTED OUT THE
BULLDOZERS.
THE ISRAELIS ARE PROBABLY AS
GOOD AS ANYBODY IN THE WORLD AT
USING BULLDOZERS AND OTHER
CAPABILITIES INSIDE A DENSELY
POPULATED AREA LIKE THIS.
THEY KNOW HOW TO DO THIS.
BUT EVEN WITH THAT, IT'S STILL
GOING TO BE VERY COSTLY.
>> AND, MATTHEW, AS YOU HAVE
SPENT SO MUCH TIME IN UKRAINE,
AND WE WERE THERE AS THE WAR
BEGAN, THERE ARE MORE THAN
DOUBLE THE NUMBER OF TROOPS THAT
PUTIN HAD AT ONE POINT ON THAT
BORDER AT THE BEGINNING ALONG
THIS BORDER WITH GAZA.
A VERY SMALL -- EVERYTHING HERE
IS IN A VERY SMALL SPACE.
JUST TO GIVE EVERYONE A SENSE OF
THE MASSIVE FORCE THAT IS
PREPARED.
>> THEY ARE GOING TO NEED
OVERWHELMING FORCE BECAUSE GAZA
IS ONE OF THE MOST DENSELY
POPULATED AREAS IN THE WORLD,
IT'S GOT THIN NARROW STREETS,
TERRIBLE FIGHTING CONDITIONS.
IT'S CRISSCROSSED BY A NETWORK
OF TUNNELS THAT ARE CONTROLLED
BY -- AND THE OTHER THING IS 150
HOSTAGES INSIDE GAZA.
THAT'S GOT TO COMPLICATE ANY
KIND OF MILITARY OPERATION.